# QuizBit
This project is a simple trivia application that allows the player to answer questions in 8 different categories (science, coding, geography, history, music, art, shows, and general). The player will also earn 100 coins for each question the answer correctly.
# How to run the app
In order to run the app and test it for yourself, simply clone the repository on Android Studio by following these steps:
Open Android Studio and select "Check out project from Version Control" from the Welcome screen. If a project is already open, go to File > New > Project from Version Control > Git.
Enter Repository URL: In the URL field, paste the URL of the GitHub repository you created. This URL can be found on the GitHub repository page (typically looks like https://github.com/username/repository.git).
Clone: Click "Clone". Android Studio will clone the repository to your local machine and open it.

You can use either their built-in emulator or connect your own Android device (must be in developer mode for it to work) to test and debug the app.
# How the app was developed
The devoloping process involved completing the following challenges: making the UI for the main activity, implementing the logic of the main activity, making the UI for the question activity, implementing the logic of how the questions are handled, saving the user data after the app has been closed. Let's go through all of these one at a time.
- Main Activity UI

The dependencies used were the following: androidx.appcompat:appcompat:1.6.1,com.github.ismaeldivita:chip-navigation-bar:1.3.4
The first step was creating the background with a gradient and applying that to the parent layout. Afterwards, the text views containing the name of the player (set to guest by default) and the amount of coins (initally set to 0) were added with the corresponding images to a linear layout. Then, three images (two of which are clickable) and three textviews were added to another linear layout. The two clickable images have a text view underneath that says "edit name" and "single player" respectively. The image that isn't clickable has a textview that says "multiplayer". Next there is another lineral layout that contains all the checkboxes for the various categories. The first row of this linear layout has a textview that says "quiz categories" and a checkbox that says "check all". Underneath the quiz categories there is a banner that informs the player that they'll earn 100 coins for each question they answer correctly and that encourages the player to start a game by saying "start now!". At the very bottom of the main activity UI there is a banner with 4 clickable sections. Everything is neatly organized with a scrollview that allows the user to scroll through the various widgets that compose the UI.
- Main Activity backend

The logic of the main activity is essential to the function of the application. First of all, there are setonclicklisteners for the two clickable images and the checkboxes. Clicking the image above "edit name" triggers an alter dialog that tells the player to edit their name with an option to save the new name inserted in the alert view or cancel and dismiss the operation. Clicking the "check all" checkbox makes it so all the checkboxes are checked. Clicking the image above "single player" checks if any of the checkboxes have been checked and loads the questions related to the checked categories in a list of strings. If none of the checkboxes have been checked, a toast is triggered that tells the player to select at least a category. If there is at least a checkbox that has been checked, an AlertDialog is triggered. In this dialog, the player can select hard mode, easy mode, or dismiss and go back to the main screen. The player is also informed that hard mode will give them only 15 seconds to answer each question. If either the easy or hard buttons are clicked, an intent is made to open the question activity, otherwise the dialog is simply dismissed. If hard mode was chosen, the boolean attribute hardMode is set to true. On resume, the value of the coins displayed is updated with the new value calculated after the game, the list containing the questions is cleared, and all the checkboxes are unchecked.
- Question Activity UI

The question activity UI is rather simple and it presents the same background as the main activity. First and foremost, the following dependency com.google.android.material:material:1.12.0 was used to create a progress bar that would show the player's progress as they answer the questions. The question is displayed using a text view and the four options (of which only one is correct) are shown on clickable buttons in the middle of the screen. At the bottom on the screen there is a button that reads "next question". Furthermore, another invisible textview to display the timer was added. This textview is made visible in case hard mode has been selected and it displays the number of seconds the player has left to answer the question. If the timer reaches 0, the text "Time's up! You failed to answer the question" is displayed. A linear layout was used to organize the widgets.
- Question Activity Backend

The questions are all found in text files contained in the assets folder and they all follow the format:

question?0wrong_option,1right_option,0wrong_option,0wrong_option

When a checkbox is checked in the main activity, the questions contained in the text file of that category are written in a question list, which is then shuffled upon the creation of the question activity. Only the first 10 questions will be shown to the user. Each question is split using the ? and , delimiters. The first piece is the question so the text view is set to that piece. All the other pieces are the options, the algorithm first checks whether the option starts with a 0 or a 1 and, if it starts with a 1, it saves that as the correct options. The four options are then set as the text of the four buttons (without the 0s and 1s). When the player clicks a button, the algorithm compares that button's text with the correct option it saved beforehand. In case those two are equal, it sets the button's background color to green and adds 100 coins to the total. In case they are not equal, the button's background color is set to red and the algorithm finds the button whose text matches the correct answer and sets that button's background color to green. When the "next question" is clicked, if the question hasn't been answer yet a toast is triggered that tells the player to answer the question before continuining. If the question has been answered, the index is updated and if it's time for the last question, the button's text changes to "finish". When the "finish" button is clicked, an intent to open a trophy activity is made. The trophy activity has an image of a trophy and a textview that tells the player how many coins they have earned in the just finished game. The player can return to the main activity screen by pressing the home button at the bottom of the screen.
If hardMode is true, an object of the class CountDownTimer is created and the timer_textview is made visible. The onTick method is overridden to update the timer_textview so it can display the number of seconds remaining. The onFinish method is overridden to update timer_textview and to show the player what the correct option was, without giving them the 100 coins. Whenever there is a new question, the start method is called and when the player answers a question in time the timer is stopped.
- Saving the data

The first challenge was making it so the coin total and the question list could be used by multiple activities. This problem was solved by creating a companion object with the following attributes: name (String), coins (Int), questionList (mutableListOf<String>), hardMode (Boolean) . All the activities used import this object and thus they are able to work on the same data and changes from one activity reverbarate across all activities. The next challenge was saving the player's name and the coin total after the app is closed. To solve this problem, the following depedency was used androidx.datastore:datastore-preferences:1.1.6. A prefsmanager class was created called "QuizPrefs" with two keys, one for the name and one for the coins. Two getter methods were defined to get the name and coins and two save methods were defined to save the name and coins. The saveName method is called after the name has been edited in the alert dialog while the saveCoins method is called after the main activity has been resumed (this means that if the app is closed during a game the coins earned in that game are not saved).
# Possible future developments
If anyone would ever want to build upon our project in the future, here are some ideas of how to improve the app.
1) Add a multiplayer gamemode
2) Add a shop where the player can buy things or unlock new gamemodes with the coins earned
3) Allow the player to create their own personalized questions
4) Greater profile customization (e.g. with a changable pfp)
